# Branch Description

## Basics
Basics is a branch that essentially presents the "Hello world" version of the program. Using only cin and cout, no variables, and no if statements or other advanced control loops. The game is being coded in VSCode, using the MinGW compiler. In this branch, the game will print out a "title screen" and ask the user to make a selection. The selection doesn't do anything, and the program exits as soon as a choice is made.

## VariablesAndConstants
Makes use of variables for displaying the title screen. Constants are used for the horizontal border and empty middle frame section, since these should not be changed. In future versions, these will be generated by functions that will make it easier to extend. For now, the game still doesn't quite run but the code is much more readable.

## Arrays
Instead of variables, title screen is created using a std::array object. While there is some repetition, the full screen is visible in the array initialization. Also, now the screen printing is much cleaner and makes more sense. Once for loops are introduced, the titleScreen variable will be created in a much more straightforward way. Printing out the full title screen will also become much better.

## IfElseIf
Almost a game! Introduces if else statements to the "game", where the selection actually leads to different outcomes. A pure if else based game would be incredibly difficult to execute, however, so again only a concept is demonstrated. The next branch will finally make this a real game by introducing loops.

## Loops
AKA "Finally a Real Game!" This branch introduces while loops, and finally creates a game like experience. Also introduced are enums and switch statements, which help streamline the process of creating games with different states. 

## Functions
Side note: coding this much without function calls was almost physically painful. Now the code is nicely abstracted away into functions with just a clean game loop. This will make it a bit more readable, and modifiable. 

## Classes
The main thing this update has taught me is the important of ground work. I knew implementing classes and functions so late in the game would be hard and require massive refactoring, but now the game avoids using global variables with some structs and classes to pass values along. Probably more complicated than is strictly necessary, but that is the point of this.

## Operator Overloading
This branch adds in some operator overloads for the Army struct. + and \<\< are implemented. Not super necessary for this implementation but it does demonstrate the concept nicely.

## Inheritance and Polymorphism
This branch demonstrates the utility of inheritance and polymorphism. Rather than do these steps as separate branches, it made more sense to combine them. Now there are Region based objects which are stored in a World object, and the GameState has a currentRegion pointer that is used in the main loop. This makes the funcs file more steamlineed, even at the cost of yet more complexity. However, this is the first time since functions and loops that I feel the changes are actually helping. As it stands, I think this is a few more tweaks away from being a general purpose text game engine.

## Smart Pointers
Moving into modern C++. The pointers have been replaced by shared pointers, to make them more memory safe.

## Streams
Also exception handling, which I folded into this branch because with runtime errors I wanted a way to see where the problem was. The game now reads all values from a .reg file. This allows for fine tuning of parameters without needing to compile after each change. Also now implements a map class which displays an ascii map to the user.

## STL
This branch felt a little anticlimactic. Given how complicated and powerful the STL is I assumed at this point I would implement all kinds of things. But looking back I've been using the STL all along. Templates are new and were a good inclusion.